feat: add getting theme from cookie (#1067)
V4Fire/Client: docs/ds/README.md

    + [dsShadow](#dsshadow)
    + [dsGradient](#dsgradient)
    + [r](#r)
    + [generateRules](#generaterules)
  * [Plugins](#plugins)
    + [injector(componentName: string)](#injectorcomponentname-string)
    + [getDSVariables](#getdsvariables)
    + [getDSValue(obj: Dictionary, path: string)](#getdsvalueobj-dictionary-path-string)
    + [getDSTextStyles(styleName: string)](#getdstextstylesstylename-string)
    + [getDSColor(colorName: string, idx: number)](#getdscolorcolorname-string-idx-number)
    + [defaultTheme](#defaulttheme)
    + [availableThemes](#availablethemes)
    + [themeAttribute](#themeattribute)
    + [darkThemeName](#darkthemename)
    + [lightThemeName](#lightthemename)

# Design System

----
## Design System Package

Using the design system provides an opportunity to have a consistent UI throughout the application,
as well as connecting various themes.

Let's see what a design system package looks like.

### Meta

Meta-information about the design system: deprecated tokens and their alternatives, themes supported by the design system,
or other auxiliary information.

```js
// ds.js
module.exports = {
  meta: {
    themes: ['dark', 'light']

>   }

Reviewer: В пример стоит добавить данные, которые перечислены в абзаце выше

}
```

### colors

In the `colors` section, you can set the colors used in the project.

For example:

```js
// ds.js
module.exports = {
  colors: {
    blue: '#0000FF',

>     // также поддерживаются вложенные пути

Reviewer: русский язык

    static: {
      black: '#000000',
      white: '#FFFFFF',
    },

>     // и массивы

Reviewer: рус

    black: ['#000000', '#000001', '#000002']
  }
}
```

> If there are themes provided:

Reviewer: Может просто: `Theme colors:`?

```js
// ds.js
module.exports = {
  colors: {
    theme: {
      dark: {
        blue: '#0000ff'
      },
      light: {
        blue: '#1b7ced'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### text

Text styles used in the project are defined as follows:

```js
// ds.js
module.exports = {
  text: {
    'Headline-Main': {
      fontFamily: 'Roboto',
      fontWeight: 800,
      fontSize: '48px',
      lineHeight: '56px'
    },
    // ...
  }
}
```

### shadows

Shadows:

```js
// ds.js
module.exports = {
  shadows: {
    Scroll: '0px 1px 2px rgba(25, 25, 26, 0.06)',
    // ...
  }
}
```

### components

Styles for basic components: buttons, checkboxes, switches, etc.

```js
// ds.js
module.exports = {
  components: {
    bComponent: {
      mods: {
        size: {
          m: { /* styles */ },
          l: { /* styles */ }
        },
        exterior: {
          ex1: { /* styles */ },
          ex2: { /* styles */ }
        }
      },
      block: {

>         block1: { /* styles */ },

Reviewer: вот этот пример не очень понятен, может лучше реальные имена блоков написать, как и для экстерьеров

the package will contain subfolders. For example: the design system in designer tools contains several icon sizes
with identical names but different geometry.
To distinguish them, you can split the names into groups: `24/icon_name`, `16/icon_name`, and so on.
In the design system package, the developer will get folders `24`, `16`, inside which there will be corresponding
sets of icons in `svg` format.

You can also place various illustrations in the design system. Put them in the `illustrations` folder, and later
you can connect them to the template or styles.

```snakeskin
- template index
  < img &
    :src = require('ds/illustrations/image.svg')
  .

```
```stylus
&__img
  background-image url("ds/illustrations/image.svg")
```

---
## Installation and Configuration

To install the design system, you need to install the package as a dependency,
specify the package name in the `designSystem` field of the `.pzlrrc` file, and you can build the project.

### runtime

#### ds/use-css-vars

If `true`, the values of the design system will be written in CSS variables.

#### passDesignSystem

> If `true`, the design system object will be available as a global variable DS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `true`, the design system object will be available as a global variable `DS`.
```

### theme

To use themes, it is necessary that the available themes are defined in the [meta](#meta) of the design system.

> As well as a set of fields that will change the display in different themes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As well as a set of fields that will change their appearance depending on the theme
```

```js
// ds.js
module.exports = {
  meta: {
    themes: ['dark', 'light'],
    themedFields: ['colors', 'shadows']
  }
}
```

Now you need to configure the project to work with themes.

#### default

The default theme for the application.

#### include

Themes that need to be included in the build. If `true`, then all themes.

#### postProcessor

> Если `true`, то атрибут темы будет обработан прокси-сервером (например Nginx). Иначе атрибут будет выставлен в js рантайме

Reviewer: рус

### Global Variables Provided by Webpack

#### DS

The object with the design system. Passed when the [passDesignSystem](#passdesignsystem) flag is enabled.

#### DS_COMPONENTS_MODS

Component modifiers

#### THEME

Default theme. See [default](#default)

#### THEME_ATTRIBUTE

See [attribute](#attribute)

#### AVAILABLE_THEMES

Available themes. Uses the [include](#include) or [default](#default) configuration values, if `include` is not defined.

#### DETECT_USER_PREFERENCES

See [detectUserPreferences](#detectuserpreferences)

#### POST_PROCESS_THEME

See [postProcessor](#postprocessor)

---
## Working with the Design System in the Project

### Colors

Colors can be obtained by identifier. Complex paths and arrays with shades are also supported.

```stylus
c("blue") // normal identifier
с("decor/primary/blue") // nesting, when colors are divided into subgroups
c("blue", 3) // if the value is an array

```

### Icons

There are two ways to connect icons. Monochrome icons are connected using a global helper.

```stylus
i("24/foo")
```

If you need to connect a colored icon, you can use a directive.

```snakeskin
- template index

>   < . v-icon = '24/bla'

Reviewer: Принято обычно писать примеры с помощью foo/bar:
```suggestion
  < . v-icon = '24/bar'
```
bla - может быть этически некорректно

```snakeskin
- template index
  < .&__icon v-icon = '24/foo'

```
```stylus
&__icon
  --main-color c("blue")
  --secondary-color c("green")
```

### Text

The global mixin `t` is used to add a font.

```stylus
t("Caption L/Medium")
```

### dsShadow

Mixin for getting a shadow.

```stylus
dsShadow("Button")
```

### dsGradient

Mixin for getting a gradient.

```stylus
dsGradient("Button")
```

### r

Mixin for getting rounding.

```stylus
r("s")
```

### generateRules

When building the project, the settings for each component are written to its `$p` object from the `components` field
of the design system package.
You need to describe the function for creating styles and pass it as the second parameter
to `generateRules(obj: Dictionary; fn: Function)`, and the first parameter is the settings object `$p`.
If you want to write all the rules using variables, return flag
`'ds/use-css-vars': true` from the `runtime` function in `config/default.js` (see [ds/use-css-vars](#dsuse-css-vars)).

You can get properties by key using the [getDSValue](#getdsvalueobj-dictionary-path-string) function.

Typically, adapters are written in such a way that the output object/field content

> with settings corresponded to the `CSSStyleDeclaration` type, and the field names to the element names in the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with settings correspond to the `CSSStyleDeclaration` type, and the field names to the element names in the code.
```

Among the built-in functions, there is also `interpolate-props(obj: CSSStyleDeclaration)`,
which will expand your object into a set of CSS rules.

```stylus
createStyles($o)
  // ...

> generateRules($p, createStyles)

Reviewer: сюда бы добавить пример, а что на выходе получится, потому что сейчас непонятно

```

---
## Plugins

There are also custom Stylus plugins for working with the design system. Some of them are used in the mixins above,
but there are also those that can be used independently.

### injector(componentName: string)

Injects additional options to component mixin options ($p)

```stylus

> injector('bButton')

Reviewer: непонятно как он добавить в $p данные, т.е. надо просто написать:

```stylus
$p = {}
injector('bButton')

или

$p = {
  ...injector('bButton')
}
```

???

// If `useCSSVarsInRuntime` is enabled
//
// {
//   values: {
//     mods: {
//       size: {
//         s: {
//           offset: {
//             top: 'var(--bButton-mods-size-s-offset-top)'
//           }
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// Otherwise
//
// {
//   values: {
//     mods: {
//       size: {
//         s: {
//           offset: {
//             top: 5px
//           }
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }
```
### getDSVariables

Returns design system CSS variables with their values

```stylus

> getDSVariables()

Reviewer: Тоже непонятно как на практике это использовать внутри стилуса

// {
//   '--colors-primary': #0F9
// }
```

### getDSValue(obj: Dictionary, path: string)

Returns a value from the design system by the specified group and path.
If passed only the first argument, the function returns parameters for the whole group,
but not just the one value. If no arguments are passed, it returns the whole design system object.

```stylus

> getDSValue(colors "green.0") // rgba(0, 255, 0, 1)

Reviewer: откуда берется объект colors?

Author: это не объект

в функцию подставится как строка с именем группы colors

Reviewer: а окей

```

### getDSTextStyles(styleName: string)

Returns an object with text styles for the specified style name

```stylus
getDSTextStyles(Small)

// Notice, all values are Stylus types
//
// {
//  fontFamily: 'Roboto',
//  fontWeight: 400,
//  fontSize: '14px',
//  lineHeight: '16px'
// }
```

### getDSColor(colorName: string, idx: number)

> Returns color(s) from the design system by the specified name and identifier (optional)

Reviewer: Здесь наверное стоит добавить пояснение, что этот хелпер учитывает текущую тему. Он ведь учитывает?

Author: если включены темы то он вернет css перемнную

Reviewer: Даже если `use-css-vars = false`? Тогда это точно стоит в доке описать

```stylus
getDSColor("blue", 1) // rgba(0, 0, 255, 1)
```

> ### defaultTheme

Reviewer: Непонятно как использовать свойства/методы, перечисленные ниже. Нужны примеры
